---
layout: page
title: Discrete vs continous stimuli
permalink: /Study_Design/discrete_vs_continous_stimuli
author: Ebrahim Babaei
parent: Study Design
nav_order: 2
has_toc: false

---
### Discrete vs Continous Stimuli
<br>
The first crucial step when designing an EDA study is to decide on the type of stimulus to be used. Depends on the goal
of their study and the type of their stimulus researchers have to pick from three paradigms for using EDA—presenting
discrete stimuli, presenting continuous stimuli, and investigating the correlation of individual traits and EDA [12]. We
note that all works in our sample in the paper, A Critique of Electrodermal Activity Practices at CHI [--] involved only the first two paradigms.
- <b>First Paradigm:</b> When designing a study where a series of discrete stimuli, each lasting a few seconds, is presented to
participants, interleaved with rest periods (Inter-Stimulus Interval (ISI)), researchers shall use phasic parameters of the
EDA signal. The phasic parameters enable measuring novelty, significance, and intensity of the stimuli used. In our
sample of papers, orienting response (see Section 4.7 of paper) is the only discrete stimulus paradigm employed in CHI.
- <b>Second Paradigm:</b> Contrary to the first paradigm, studies investigating the effect of continuous stimuli, such as long
lasting situations or tasks, on EDA, shall analyse the tonic parameters of the EDA signal. Tonic parameters, such as SCL
and NS.SCR frequency, are defined by the before-mentioned slow response to changes in conditions such as cognitive
workload or stress. SCL and NS.SCR frequencies are the most common measures in this paradigm, which is the most
widely used paradigm in current EDA studies published at CHI.